# Processor
 - Author: Xueyi Fu, Junyan Tang
 - Date: 10/18/2023

### Design Description
This design implements a single-cycle 32-bit processor. The top-level entity("skeleton") includes processor, instruction memory, data memory and regfile. In this project, we implement some basic functionalities of a processor based on MIPS ISA. Specifically, the following R-type and I-type instructions: _add_, _sub_, _and_, _or_, _sll_, _sra_, _sw_, _lw_, _addi_. We also include some JI-type and JII-type instructions: _j_, _bne_, _jal_, _jr_, _blt_, _bex_, _setx_.

**skeleton.v**
<br> This is a wrapper around the processor to provide certain control signals and interfaces to memory elements. It has two inputs, clock signal and reset signal. The outputs are imem_clock, dmem_clock, processor_clock and regfile_clock, which represent the clock signal of these components respectively. Frequency of regfile & processor clock is one quarter of those two memory clock frequency for quick response. The clock of data memory is half a cycle behind instruction memory's clock.

**processor.v**
<br> This is the core module of processor design. In this module, we connect Memory, Register File, ALU, Program Counter and Control circuit together and assign correct values to them. Each instruction corresponds to a control signal. These control signals are combined as the select input of MUX. Here we process several exceptions. For example, if overflow occurs, $rstatus($r30) will be set to certain value.

**Control.v**
<br> This module implements control circuit. Processor needs control signals including Rwe, Rdst, ALUinB, DMwe, Rwd, JP, bne, blt, jr, jal, setx and bex to decide which datapath to choose. These signals are generated by logical combination of opcode.
| Control Signal  | Decode |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| Rwe  | enable register write  |
| Rdst  | choose which register to write  |
| ALUinB  | choose dataB for ALU  |
| DMwe  | enable data memory write  |
| Rwd  | choose which data to be written into register |
| JP  | determine whether to jump or not for PC |

**dmem.v**
<br> Data momory is generated as a 1-port RAM. Initial content of dmem is left blank as we can never read data from some address of the dmem before writing into it. Our processor stores and loads data from data memory(insns: _sw_, _lw_).

**imem.v**
<br> Instruction memory is written by .mif file. It is a 1-port ROM on chip memory. Its 'q' output bus is 32 bits wide and it has 4096 32-bit words of memory. Our processor obtains instructions from instruction memory.

**alu.v**
<br> Arithmetic Logic Unit. It performs mathematical and logical operations, including add, sub, or, and, sll, sra. It also provides signals about overflow, isNotEaqual and isLessThan.

**regfile.v**
<br> Register File. This module supports two read ports and one write port while being composed of 32 registers(32-bit wide each). $r0 is always read as 0. $r30 is the status register which can be set when exceptions occur. $r31 is the return address register which should be used in a _jal_ instruction.

**clock_divider_by2.v**
<br> Clock Divider which divides the clock input by two. Thus the processor's clock frequency can be slower than memory's clock.

**plus1.v**
<br> Module plus1 pluses Program Counter(PC) by 1. Module plusN pluses Program Counter(PC) by N.

**reg_12bit.v**
<br> Program Counter which contains the address of the instruction being executed at current time. 

**SX.v**
<br> Module SX sign-extends I-type immediate field [16:0] to a signed 32-bit integer. Module SX_T extends J-type T [26:0] to an unsigned 32-bit integer. Module SX_PC extends 12-bit PC to an unsigned 32-bit integer which can be added with N.

**basic_test.s**
<br> Basic test cases in assembly. Use assembler to generate corresponding .mif file to mif_outputs.

**halfTestCases.s**
<br> Half test cases in assembly.  Use assembler to generate corresponding .mif file to mif_outputs. It only includes R-type and I-type instructions.

**FullTestCases.s**
<br> Full test cases in assembly.  Use assembler to generate corresponding .mif file to mif_outputs. It also includes JI-type and JII-type instructions.

**skeleton_tb.v**
<br> Testbench file. Compares generated results with expected results.
